	2021-07-16

	2021_07_Jul 2021-07-16_MESSAGE.txt

	The message is real. It is not about the message. It is about
	the control.

	PLUS added ability to keep for later || apply

 NORMAL

	You don't see being considered "normal" as a privilege?.

	HaHa!! if people considered me normal ...

	my normal is not what some of these nearby savants think they
	think it is. They think the any argument, is an opposition of the
	"message", and they then prove it does exist, with accusation
	opposition, of "you oppose the message", when it should be
	"the message was recently used here - how convenient?"

	So what is "normal"? It is as it should be. Proper. Normal.

	If you want to import the chapter on "normal distribution",
	 well that can be included. It includes stuff within 3 sigma
	(sigma = standard deviation = aggregate of all points, average
	distance from mean squared, averaged, rooted, N-1 for fun

	Theses no easy keyword like "average" or "median", perhaps
	the plain expectation of normal, prior to all those positive or
	negative biases. Maybe even the entire landscape, including stuff
	that happens. That might be normal. Another calibration point is
	"zero", on some physical axes, zero is the "normal".

	Are you considering me normal? Is that my privilege? But surely
	it is my opinion of normal, that matters to me. I know I am
	way off, achieving the ideal, but I know what it ought to be.

	EG my biggest privilege is being raised by two parents, who
	believe in education, ... etc ... (clip long story). But to me
	that is "normal", I'm sure there is better, and worse, but to me
	it is not privilege, it is their hard work. To me that is normal.

	That is good luck "normal", it is not tepid "normal"
	When they steal the meaning of "privilege"
	they are taking away from you (from everyone),
	all the good stuff, and ask you to feel guilt for that hard work.
	Your local lucky is not your good luck, it is stolen

 ADVANTAGE

 	ADVANTAGE -vs- PRIVILEGE

		local luck, good luck and hard work

		should be taken away from you
		aspire to also have that ideal

		divisive choice
		choice divisive
 
	
